E2E testing (#6)
constancecchen/kibana: x-pack/test/functional_enterprise_search/README.md

# Enterprise Search Functional E2E Tests

## Running these tests

Follow the [Functional Test Runner instructions](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-functional-tests.html#_running_functional_tests).

There are two suites available to run, a suite that requires a Kibana instance without an `enterpriseSearch.host`
configured, and one that does. The later also [requires a running Enterprise Search instance](#enterprise-search-requirement), and a Private API key
from that instance set in an Environment variable.

Ex.

```
# Run specs from the x-pack directory
cd x-pack

# Run tests that require enterpriseSearch.host variable

> APP_SEARCH_API_KEY=private-2shg47w6zpj62zqe8qb5fap9 node scripts/functional_tests --config test/functional_enterprise_search/with_host_configured.config.ts

Reviewer: Are we concerned at all about having this API key in a publicly-exposed document? I'm not sure if it's real or fake, but if fake, can we at least make it something like `private-12345`?

If it's meant to be a private key from the currently-spun-up local App Search instance, can we make that clearer via something like:

`APP_SEARCH_API_KEY=[use private key from local App Search instance here]`

~Although I'm also actually not totally clear what we need the API key for?...~ 🤦‍♀️  disregard sorry, makes sense that it's for creating engines (until we can do so via the plugin itself)

Reviewer: OK after testing myself locally, looks like it's supposed to be a real private key from local AS. I'd suggest this:

```suggestion
APP_SEARCH_API_KEY=[use private key from local App Search instance here] node scripts/functional_tests --config test/functional_enterprise_search/with_host_configured.config.ts
```

Reviewer: It looks like this change was also reverted at some point

# Run tests that do not require enterpriseSearch.host variable
node scripts/functional_tests --config test/functional_enterprise_search/without_host_configured.config.ts
```

## Enterprise Search Requirement

These tests will not currently start an instance of App Search automatically. As such, they are not run as part of CI and are most useful for local regression testing.

Requirements for Enterprise Search:

- Running on port 3002 against a separate Elasticsearch cluster.

> - Elasticsearch must have a platinum or greater level license (or trial).

Reviewer: Note to self - if missing a >platinum license, you'll get a rather mysterious error of `SyntaxError: Unexpected end of JSON input`

Author: Ugh, yeah. If we decide we want to keep these tests around I think I may just drop a docker-compose file in that will bring up the stack configured correctly.

Author: So you don't even have to think about this stuff.

> - Must have Standard Auth configured with an `enterprise_search` user with password `changeme`.

Reviewer: Elasticsearch Native auth also works!
```suggestion
- Must have Standard or Native Auth configured with an `enterprise_search` user with password `changeme`.
```

Reviewer: It looks like this change was also reverted at some point

# Enterprise Search Functional E2E Tests

## Running these tests

Follow the [Functional Test Runner instructions](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-functional-tests.html#_running_functional_tests).

There are two suites available to run, a suite that requires a Kibana instance without an `enterpriseSearch.host`
configured, and one that does. The later also [requires a running Enterprise Search instance](#enterprise-search-requirement), and a Private API key
from that instance set in an Environment variable.

Ex.

```
# Run specs from the x-pack directory
cd x-pack

# Run tests that require enterpriseSearch.host variable
APP_SEARCH_API_KEY=[use private key from local App Search instance here] node scripts/functional_tests --config test/functional_enterprise_search/with_host_configured.config.ts

# Run tests that do not require enterpriseSearch.host variable

> node scripts/functional_tests --config test/functional_enterprise_search/without_host_configured.config.ts

Reviewer: I'm running this and getting a `Please provide a valid APP_SEARCH_API_KEY. See README for more details.` error in my terminal - any advice?

Reviewer: I ran this with the `APP_SEARCH_API_KEY=[xxx]` prefix as in the above example and the test passed after that.

No strong feelings either way, but I'd suggest either removing the req for `APP_SEARCH_API_KEY` for the without_host config, or updating this command to include it.

Reviewer: BTW - can I ask that we add `bash` right after the ``` code blocks in this markdown file? That way all the code snippets get syntax highlighting :)

Author: Yes, good call
